Well now back in Blender Let's bring that texture map and assign it to our material here so we can see
it on our 3D object.
First of all what I'll do is create a whole new material for this door so we can keep our U-V test material
as is and apply it to other objects when we need it.
I'll go ahead and click the plus here to add new material.
I'll call this door and let's press shift A and bring in a new image texture.
And I'll go ahead and connect it up to the diffuse node and from here I'll click open and browse to
my textures folder where I've put that door underscore see image right there.
Open that up and there we go Alt-Tab into object mode.
And now we can see our texture has been applied to our door and there we go.
So just like we talked about at the very beginning essentially what we've done is cut this open laid
it down flat applied our images to it and now we're bringing it back and wrapping those images around
the 3D object itself.
So really that is U-V mapping and texturing in a nutshell.
But of course there are a couple of other things that we can talk about.
One of them is having different materials for our objects here.
So there are two basic surfaces here one is the wood and the other is the metal on the door knob and
plate.
What I'd like is to have a different type of material a different type of surface for each of those
two objects.
But currently we only have control over the one material here.
Now we could add a glossy Noad here pressing shift A and Shater and glossy and then add a mix.
No just like we did in the introduction to materials and lighting course I'll add this here and connect
these two up.
And now we have control over the glossy anus and the specular highlights and even the roughness of this
material.
But it's going to apply to the whole object.
I need to have individual control of the surface of the wood separate from the surface of the door knob.
So I'm going to click here and drag a new panel out into this interface and change this from a 3D view
to propertys view.
And now I can come over and look at the materials for our object.
So I'd like to add material slot to this I'll just click plus.
And now we have a new material slot and click new and for this let's call this door knob and let's call
that first one let's call that door would.
Now if I select that door knob material and tab into edit mode I'm going to come in here and with the
L key again
select these pieces right here and assign that material to the door knobs.
OK.
Now we have independent control of the surface quality or material of that object.
And from here I can go ahead and press shift a.
Add that image texture in once again.
I'll just pull down this menu here and add that door color map and connect it up here.
So now the color map is being fed into both the door knob material and the door would material but they're
only picking up the texture from their particular U-V Islands.
OK now we need to see the door as we're going to see it in a render so we can adjust the materials settings
the way we'd like.
I think what I'll do is add a light to the scene I'll press shift a and add a lamp and maybe I kind
of like an area light so I'll add that and I'll pull it out in front of the door here.
In the light panel increase the size of the light so I can see it here.
And I'll also rotate it so it points down at the door.
Now come down here and change our viewport shading method from textured rendered now we can see the
door right here now it looks kind of shiny for wood here so I'll select that door and come back up here
to the material slots and slide that door would.
And I'll drag the mics Shater so will we see more of the diffuse and maybe even increase the roughness
of the diffuse as well.
So now that's not quite as shiny as it was.
In addition let's take a look at this door knob.
I think even though it's kind of dirty and Rusty it still needs a little more shine.
So once again I'll add a glossy and a mix and let's see how this works.
Now that's a little bit too much I think.
So let's take it down some
let's try point three.
All right so now we have the surface of the door also like this.
I have the mix factor down to that.
Let's put that at point 1 and the roughness too.
And I guess we could put this to two here as well.
And then for the door knob I have the mix factor at three the roughness in the glossy at point two.
And in the diffuse zero.
So now we've got I think a better representation of the materials here on our object.
Now there is more we could do of course we could go back into Gamp and add new layers to our document
overlaying dirt or some other colors on the door.
We could even put text on the door if we wanted.
In fact in the next video let's go ahead and try something with text on it.
That's maybe a little bit different shape.